By default, the authorization server will use the JWT authentication provider,
which will decode the JWT token using a JwtDecoder that
will perform the validation of the token,
checking its signature, optionally the issuer and the expiry.
In our portfolio service,
you can implement a custom validator to check the
audience and add it to the JwtDecoder.
To do this,
create a class that implements the OAuth2TokenValidator
and override the validate method.
Here you have access to the JWT object where you can access the audience
and check if it contains the value portfolio-service.
If it doesn't, you can return an OAuth2Error,
otherwise return success using the OAuth2TokenValidatorResult object.
Now you need to plug in the validator into the decoder.
To do this, create a new instance of the decoder.
In the SecurityConfiguration class,
you can create a method that returns an instance of a JwtDecoder.
Here you can return an instance of the NimbusJwtDecoder as this is the
default for Spring by using JwtDecoders builder.
Since the issuer supports OpenID Connect discovery,
you can use the issuer URI method and pass in the issuer URI.
Next,
you need to create an instance of the default validator so
that the default checks like the expiry,
the issuer claim are still performed.
You can use the JwtValidator builder class for that.
Now you can only set one validator into the decoder.
So to add both the default and our custom audience validator,
you need to create an instance of the delegating OAuth2 validator
and pass in the both instances in the constructor,
then add the delegatingValidator into the decoder and return it.
And that's it.
Plug this decoder into the JWT authentication provider.
Now do the same for the support service,
but this time checking the audience is support-service.
One final thing that's needed now is to add these audiences
into the access token created by Keycloak.
For that, you need a mapping.
So in our Keycloak admin console, in Clients,
crypto-portfolio, Mappers, Create, give the mapper a name,
and the type will be Audience.
Here you can select from a list of clients Keycloak is aware of.
Now our portfolio service is a part of this list, so you can select it.
This is because we configured it as a client previously so that
it can request a token via the client credentials grant to make
a request to the pricing service.
Make sure it is added to the access token.
You can create a similar mapping for the support service.
However, the support service is not a client,
so it is not part of the client list.
Hence, you can use the custom audience field and just simply type it in.
That's it.
The audience on the access tokens created by the WebClients will
now contain the portfolio and support service.
Whereas the token created by the client credentials grant by the
portfolio service to access the pricing service will not contain
these audiences and hence cannot be used against the portfolio or support services.